Add images and post for maintenance page post (#742)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/register-trainee-teachers/2022-11-01-when-everythings-gone-wrong.md

---
title: When everything’s gone wrong
description: A look at our ‘maintenance page’ - a page to be used when the service is offline
date: 2022-11-01
related:
  items:
  - text: Pull request updating our maintenance page
    href: https://github.com/DFE-Digital/register-trainee-teachers/pull/2880
  - text: Register’s maintenance page code
    href: https://github.com/DFE-Digital/register-trainee-teachers/tree/main/service_unavailable_page
ogImage:
  src: /register-trainee-teachers/when-everythings-gone-wrong/1.maintenance-page-screenshot.png
  alt: Screenshot of Register’s new maintenance page
---

![Screenshot of Register’s new maintenance page.](1.maintenance-page-screenshot.png)

> This post is about our ‘maintenance page’ - colloquially known as our ‘everything’s gone wrong page’. This is a page to be used when the entire service is down - either for maintenance or because something has gone very wrong with Register trainee teachers (Register). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post is about our ‘maintenance page’ - known as our ‘everything’s gone wrong page’ within our team. This is a page to be used when the entire service is down - either for maintenance or because something has gone very wrong with Register trainee teachers (Register). 
```

No services have 100% uptime. They all go down at some point - sometimes planned, sometimes because of incidents. During these times, it’s better to show a helpful message acknowledging the issue rather than a cryptic unstyled error.
 
When a service goes down the developers on the service will be busy trying to get it back up. They won’t have time to create error pages to show, so teams need to have a page ready in advance.

## What makes our maintenance page different

The page is based on the [Design System’s service unavailable pattern](https://design-system.service.gov.uk/patterns/service-unavailable-pages/).

An important implementation detail is that our page is 100% standalone from our app. It does not depend on our app or assets functioning in order to get shown. This could be important depending on what has broken about the service - it’s helpful that the maintenance page doesn't depend on anything else except hosting.

In our case, the html and assets are [stored in the same repo](https://github.com/DFE-Digital/register-trainee-teachers/tree/main/service_unavailable_page) as our production codebase, but deployed separately and manually.

## Keeping users up to date

> In the previous week, Register had an incident that brought the service down for 4.5 hours. We deployed our maintenance page soon after the incident started, with the following message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous week, Register had an incident that brought the service down for 4 hours and 30 minutes. We deployed our maintenance page soon after the incident started, with the following message:
```
